David D Ro is professor at the National
Defense University joins us here in the
studio great to have you with us we just
saw the the Iranian foreign minister
addressing the UN we're now hearing that
there's going to be restrictions placed
by the US on his delegation in New York
that with the other sanctions that have
recently just been placed on Iran what
sort of impact are they going to have
minimal um these are sort of di Minimus
actions that the government can take to
show they're doing things I think that
when you start with the economic
sanctions those are constantly being uh
identified sanctionable targets and are
being announced on an almost daily basis
by the US government so the fact that
they're being publicized a little bit
more I think is is the Biden
Administration trying to show people and
try to show Israel's leadership that
they are taking an active role the
restrictions on the Iranian foreign
minister um refer to his uh ability to
wander around New York when he's there
for un business um there is uh a case to
be made there have been instance where
he was speaking to reporters threatening
them and their family uh in New York uh
saying you know you're trembling you
should be trembling I know you have
family uh but generally this is viewed
as sort of petty uh there have been
other delegations that have been engaged
in active Espionage uh I think this is
more just trying to show that we're
doing something short of War absolutely
because we're still waiting to see what
Israel is going to do it's vowed to
respond it's hold numerous War cabinets
meetings to try and decide on that
response what do you think it's going to
choose what sort of line of action is it
going to choose well there's there's
several uh I think it does have to
respond I think that Israel cannot uh
allow an attack of this magnitude which
I I would argue is disproportionate uh
to to be unchallenged it this can't
become a normal thing for Israel any
Israeli politician who agrees to that
won't have a future in Israeli politics
so um I think that what they will try to
do is identify a Target
that is closely identified with the
Revolutionary guard or with the
religious regime that will inflict
maximum embarrassment and damage but is
related somehow to this this is very
hard but it could possibly be a drone
Factory or missile Factory uh the uh
Factory at B Air Base in Isfahan would
be a good Target but it's very far
inland hard to strike uh and then maybe
uh some of the economic interests that
the Revolutionary guard increasingly
controls they control by some estimates
as much as 45% of the Iranian economy so
if they could find a business that is
known to be owned by the Revolutionary
guard that doesn't do a good job uh and
Target that that would probably not give
the solidification of the Iranian
populace behind the regime effect that
Israel's also trying to avoid it's very
tricky it's very tricky so do you think
Israel will be able to respond in a way
that will not further escalate will not
warrant a response from Iran and further
escalation well we're we're talking
about Pride here so rationality and the
things that uh your viewers engage in
that's that's not on the table so I I
cannot predict what's going on I can
predict that when Israel does respond
they will say this is a discreet
proportionate event and it's up for Iran
to as to how they take that in the past
um they have been able to uh you know
they've suffered some embarrassment and
have been able to absorb that you know
by making a promise to respond at some
future time but uh you know when you
when you get Pride involved you get
irrationality and that's when analysts
like me just enter into the Dark Ages
unfortunately so it's interesting
another point of this is that we've got
the US and Israel holding meetings on
the Rafa ground Invasion the US has been
very clear that it does not support a
grand invasion of Rafa until perhaps
recently do you sense a change in tone
and is that connected to Israel holding
off on escalating the situation with
Iran yeah I look prior to the Iranian
attack on Israel Israel was boxed in an
international opinion uh the narrative
was Israel and civilian casualties and
suffering in Gaza now the narrative in
the west at least has shifted to Israel
Under Siege by Iran uh Iran in effect
has pushed the suffering of Gaza off the
table in most of the West and it's
rehabilitated Israel uh among people in
the west and in the United States who
were at the verge of calling for a halt
on it so I think it's a very real
possibility that as a direct result of
this Iranian action the United States
will say okay we'll hold you know Israel
will say we'll hold back on that but we
have to achieve our security goals in
Gaza and those security goals can't be
achieved without a military occupation
of Rafa for some period of time David
Ros very good to speak to you thanks
very much for taking the time to join us
here thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer